Steps in the Data Science Process.
We have already seen a simple linear
form of data science process,
including five distinct activities
that depend on each other.
Let's summarize each activity further
before we go into the details of each.
Acquire includes anything that makes
us retrieve data including; finding,
accessing, acquiring, and moving data.
It includes identification of and
authenticated access to all related data.
And transportation of data from
sources to distributed files systems.
It includes way to subset and match
the data to regions or times of interest.
As we sometimes refer to
it as geo-spacial query.
The next activity is prepare data,
we divide the pre-data activity.
Into two steps based on
the nature of the activity.
Namely, explore data and pre-process data.
The first step in data preparation
involves literally looking
at the data to understand its nature,
what it means, its quality and format.
It often takes a preliminary
analysis of data, or
samples of data, to understand it.
This is why this step is called explore.
Once we know more about the data
through exploratory analysis,
the next step is pre-processing
of data for analysis.
Pre-processing includes cleaning data,
sub-setting or
filtering data, creating data,
which programs can read and
understand, such as modeling raw
data into a more defined data model,
or packaging it using
a specific data format.
If there are multiple data sets involved,
this step also includes integration
of multiple data sources, or streams.
The prepared data then would be
passed onto the analysis step,
which involves selection of
analytical techniques to use,
building a model of the data,
and analyzing results.
This step can take a couple
of iterations on its own or
might require data scientists
to go back to steps one and
two to get more data or
package data in a different way.
Step four for communicating results
includes evaluation of analytical results.
Presenting them in a visual way,
creating reports that include
an assessment of results with
respect to success criteria.
Activities in this step can often be
referred to with terms like interpret,
summarize, visualize, or post process.
The last step brings us back to the very
first reason we do data science,
the purpose.
Reporting insights from analysis and
determining actions from insights based
on the purpose you initially defined
is what we refer to as the act step.
We have now seen all the steps in
a typical data science process.
Please note that this is an iterative
process and findings from one step
may require the previous step to
be repeated with new information.